---
layout: post
title: What Is Bitcoin Miner?
description: What Is Bitcoin Miner? A computer that performs proof of work.
toc:
  facts: Basic Facts of Bitcoin
  operation: Bitcoin Mining Operation
  acquire: How Miners Acquire Bitcoins
  trading: Bitcoin Trading
  asic: ASIC
  atm: Bitcoin ATM
---

<h2 id="facts">Basic Facts of Bitcoin</h2>

<p>The creator of Bitcoin was <a href="/blog/">Satoshi Nakamoto</a>. It is one form of cryptocurrency that is created and stored electronically. Bitcoin is considered decentralized currency since no institution or group controls it. </p>
{% include page-toc.html %}
<p>Bitcoin is not a printed currency unlike the printed normal ones like dollars, euro, pounds and indian rupees. </p>

<p>Bitcoin can be digitally generated by people through complicated mathematical problem solving. It is one form of digital currency. It can also be called mining by the use of a computer.</p>

<p>There can only be 21 million Bitcoins in the world that can only be derived through algorithm of coding which is a protocol that nobody can generate unlimited bitcoin.</p>

<p>Despite that fact, Bitcoin can be further divided into more smaller parts. One hundredth million in each Bitcoin is considered the smallest part and was named Satoshi, after Bitcoin’s founder.</p> 

<p>The moment you have sent your Bitcoin to somebody, you can no longer have them back unless the recipient will return it. They will be gone forever. </p>

<p>For Bitcoin transaction, bitcoin uses wallets for receiving and sending it electronically and will be signed digitally for security purposes. Only records of bitcoin transactions can be seen in the wallet not the bitcoin itself. </p>
 
<p>A Bitcoin address and a private key were the basically needed so that you can able to send Bitcoin. Henceforth, a Bitcoin address is generated randomly and primarily composed of numbers and letters. </p>

<p>However, you need to keep the private key since it is not the same purposely with the Bitcoin address. The private keys as well are made of letters and and numbers. </p>

<h2 id="operation">Bitcoin Mining Operation</h2>

<p>A lot of people nowadays are <a href="/bitcoin-miner-antminer-s9/">always sending Bitcoins</a> around the world through the internet. It’s difficult to track the transactions such as who is sending to whom and for the purposes of complying that, the transaction records of Bitcoin is going to be recorded in a block for a certain span of time. </p>

<p>At this time, the miners are taking care of their own transaction confirmations and should be writing those on a ledger. </p>

<p>A certain thing called Blockchain which is a ledger’s e xpanded version does the saving of all the details in every single transaction made across the network.</p>

<p>Blockchain is an all around ledger which has an enumeration of blocks that’s very long. A constant update is there on every block in the network of Bitcoin given to everybody so that they will be knowledgeable on what’s happening inside the network. </p>

<p>A trustworthy ledger is really important. The miner’s role came into picture. </p>

<p>When a block of <a href="/hardware/">transactions is created</a>, miners are going to do their process. They just have to simply need the block’s necessary information and start doing a mathematical solution by the use of formulas and the result will turn out into something. </p>

<p>That thing we were talking about is what we call as hash and it is primarily composed of numbers and letters. On that certain period of time, on the blockchain’s tip, with the block put that is put together with the hash. </p>

<h2 id="acquire">How Miners Acquire Bitcoins</h2>

<p>A competition is very rampant between every miners on generating hash by the use of code which is particularly written in mine blocks. 25 bitcoin is given as a reward every time someone can successfully create Hash and the blockchain will be updated as well. The reward are given as incentives for the transaction processing. </p>

<p>Generating hash is just easy but what’s <a href="/usb-bitcoin-miner/">difficult is from the network of Bitcoin</a> itself where the reason is primarily because of the used algorithm that is known to be getting harder overtime. The bitcoin protocol only accepts different looking hashes for example having zeros at the start and it doesn’t accept old hash as well. </p>

<p>Nonce which is a random bit of a data, is utilized by miners for the purposes of making blocks or hash that don’t get upset with the information of other individuals. In order to generate a hash, nonce together with exchange information is utilized. If that hash will not fit the necessary configuration, the nonce will be changed and the whole thing is hashed once again. </p>
 
<p>There are a lot of many endeavors to know a nonce that suits, and every single miners in the entire system is trying to do it all the time. That’s the way those miners win their deserved bitcoins. </p>

<h2 id="trading">Bitcoin Trading</h2>

<p>Bitcoin can be sold and bought very easily nowadays. It has been readily available and accessible around the world and is being utilized by an increasing number of merchants globally. Bitcoins can be stored using bitcoin wallets. </p>

<h2 id="asic">ASIC</h2>

<p>ASIC or what we call as <a href="/bitcoin-miner-SP20-jackson/">Application Specific Integrated Circuit</a> is a device used to process problems of hashing called SHA-256 in mining new Bitcoins. It is just a chip made of silicon just for mining Bitcoins only. </p>

<h2 id="atm">Bitcoin ATM</h2>

<p>Bitcoin ATM is a physical machine which is available anywhere globally in order to give Bitcoin users the service of having to buy bitcoins using cash. </p>
